### Sticky card labelling algorithm

Our labeller is intended for processing segments of probable arthropods from scans of sticky cards collected in Canada.

The labeller is designed with two goals in mind:

1. flag probable strawberry blossom weevils, probable male spotted-wing drosophilae, and probable spotted-wing drosophila parasitoid wasps
1. flag all probable arthropods on a sticky card

In training and inferring with this model, we have obtained these segments by running Svenning et al.'s `flatbug` ([link](https://github.com/darsa-group/flat-bug)) script on scans of sticky cards collected from the field. `flatbug`, intended to segment all individual arthropods into individual images, performs well but still makes some mistakes. Some of the segments it produces feature only parts of arthropods, multiple arthropods, or non-arthropod material such as plant matter. In order to fulfill both goals, the labeller therefore needs to classify into five categories:

1. Arthropod
1. Debris
1. SWD_male (male spotted-wing drosophila)
1. SWD_parasitoid (spotted-wing drosophila parasitoid)
1. Small_black_weevil (probable strawberry blossom weevil)


The labeller is based on ResNet50 architecture and uses ImageNet-1k weights. Class imbalance characterises both training and expected deployment data. The dataset used to build the model was composed as follows:

1. 81,546 Arthropod
1. 11,373 Debris
1. 697 Small_black_weevil
1. 283 SWD_parasitoid
1. 78 SWD_male


These data originated from a cross-Canada survey conducted in 2022. Please contact the PIEE Lab if you have further questions.

## Training

`train_labeller.py` has a number of arguments, described in `def cli_args()` at top of file.

Among these arguments is a size-aware classification option that has not been tested with the most recent updates. This requires input data that have been processed with `rescale-images.py`.

## Annotating scanned sticky cards with pretrained model

`test_crop_labeller.py`, the annotator script, has a number of arguments (described in `def cli_args()` at top of file). Ensure that the `crops_dir` argument includes the JSON file (`coco_instances.json`) generated by `flatbug`. Please note as well that the `scans_dir` argument should include the exact scans processed by `flatbug`.
